README.md, before:

# OAuth Client <-> Identity Broker <-> Identity Provider Demo

## Overview

The demo is built using [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) for the client and [better-auth](https://better-auth.com/) for the identity broker. GitHub is used as the identity provider in this demo. But better-auth supports multiple identity providers, making it suitable to act as the identity broker for service providers that might make use of multiple identity providers at the same time.

For simplicity, the client and the identity broker are built in the same repository. 

This project is a demo for the authentication flow I implemented for a project at an internship - Where the goal was to research possible solutions for an SSO system using multiple identity providers. A key aspect was to make it as simple as possible to add more service providers as well as identity providers as needs evolve.

With the current implementation, adding a new identity provider is simply a matter of registering the provider in the identity broker and adding the necessary environment variables, as well as dealing with any configurations needed on the identity provider side (Usually a callback URL). Adding a new service provider requires you to add the service to the broker's trusted origins list as well as to a database table containing the service provider's client id, client secret and redirect uri.

### Built with

- [![Svelte](https://img.shields.io/badge/Svelte-FF3E00?logo=svelte&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge)](https://svelte.dev/)
- [![better-auth](https://img.shields.io/badge/Better%20Auth-FFF?logo=betterauth&logoColor=000&style=for-the-badge)](https://better-auth.com/)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm i` for both the client and the identity broker.
3. Create a .env file in/for both the client and the identity broker.

Commit message:

add verification of client info from db into auth endpoint

README.md, after:

# OAuth Client <-> Identity Broker <-> Identity Provider Demo

## Overview

### Context

This project is a demo for the authentication flow I recommended for an in-house project during my time at an internship, where the goal was to research possible solutions for an SSO system using multiple identity providers. A key aspect was to make it as simple as possible to add more service providers as well as identity providers as needs evolve.

### Architecture

The demo is built using [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) for the client and [better-auth](https://better-auth.com/) for the identity broker. For simplicity, the client and the identity broker are built in the same repository.

GitHub is used as the identity provider in this demo. However, better-auth supports multiple identity providers, making it suitable to act as the identity broker for service providers that might make use of multiple identity providers at the same time.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Broker
    participant GitHub as Identity Provider

    Client->>Broker: Request Login
    Broker->>GitHub: Redirect to IdP
    GitHub->>Broker: Return Auth Code
    Broker->>Client: Return Session/Token
```

With the current implementation, adding a new identity provider is simply a matter of registering the provider in the identity broker and adding the necessary environment variables, as well as dealing with any configurations needed on the identity provider side (usually a callback URL). Adding a new service provider requires you to add the service to the broker's trusted origins list as well as to a database table containing the service provider's Client ID, Client Secret, and Redirect URI.

### Scope

As this is a demo, it is not a production-ready solution. It focuses on the **authentication** (identifying the user) aspect rather than **authorization** (managing permissions) or user profile management. It does not establish a single source of truth for user claims but merely demonstrates the flow of identity verification.

### Built with

- [![Svelte](https://img.shields.io/badge/Svelte-FF3E00?logo=svelte&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge)](https://svelte.dev/)
- [![better-auth](https://img.shields.io/badge/Better%20Auth-FFF?logo=betterauth&logoColor=000&style=for-the-badge)](https://better-auth.com/)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm i` for both the client and the identity broker.
3. Create a .env file in/for both the client and the identity broker.
